So in order to get started with typescript we have to install this typescript compiler because I explained
that typescript doesn't run like this as a language in a browser.
Instead the browser understands javascript so we need this compiler this tool which takes our types
of code and converts it to JavaScript code.
Now for that you can visit typescript Lang dot Orrick and on this page you'll find a download link.
This is the official page of the typescript project by the way.
So they are you all to find you official docs if you want to dive into those.
But for the moment we can click on download here to learn how to install this compiler.
And here we actually don't have a download link.
Instead we install this typescript tool with NPM.
So with the node package manager.
Now we already use this before it in the course but in case you somehow skip those sections you get
this tool as a command you can use in your terminal or a command prompt.
Once you install node J.S. so for Dad you can visit node J.S. dot org and there is simply download and
install that latest version with this button you downloaded.
You get a install or you can walk through the installer and you can install node Chase on your system.
Now note J.S. is runtime for JavaScript and this gets used by the compiler behind the scenes.
But most importantly if you install no trace you all installed and Node package manager a tool which
actually allows you to well install packages.
For example global packages global tools like this type of tool.
So with no trace installed you can open up your system command prompt or terminal and they are simply
run npm install dash G for global typescript this will installed this tool globally.
Now on Mac and Linux you might need to add a pseudo in front of this to get the right permissions once
this installation finishes.
You got typescript dis compiler installed and you're ready to write some types good code now to do that
let's head over to a new project and here I essentially got an empty folder opened up in Visual Studio
code which is the idea I'm using here.
The two files and folders you see here are only configuration files which you can ignore in which you
don't need and in there we can now add our first types could file for example app dot t yes.
The name is totally up to you.
Now Dot T S is important this stands for TypeScript and this well simply is t extension we use here
to make clear that we write some types of code in there.
Now in this typescript file here you can write types of code and it's important to understand here that
typescript as I mentioned builds up on javascript so generally you can write normal javascript code
in here and indeed any javascript code works in at times could file but you can then also add certain
features which only work in typescript.
So it's javascript plus plus.
So to say now what can we do in here.
Well we can for example add a function add we get two parameters a and b and where we return a plus
b that's D sample from the slide I showed earlier.
Now let's create a result constant here and call add and pass and 5 and let's say free as strings.
This was the example where we might get an unexpected result we can console log result here and now
we can execute it to execute as one way is to simply add index H to metal file and if you are using
visuals to do code you can then just type each email here you get these all the suggestions and if you
had tab here you get this HMO five skeleton where l just had a title of typescript and where I will
now add a script import now important here we don't import app dot t s but app dot J.S. because as I
mentioned the browser won't be able to run our type group code anyways.
Now of course we have no app dot J.S. file right now but that will soon change.
Now we'll add defer here to make sure that the script gets downloaded early but only executes once the
entire DRM has been rendered.
And with that dead set for the moment I need no content in here because in the script we got some code
which runs automatically any ways in which simply Princeton's where assault now the APT or Jay as follows.
Missing as I mentioned right now with the help of the types of compiler we can get this all we need
is a new terminal.
And here I will use t built in one.
So your normal command prompt or terminal simply navigated into this project folder and there since
we installed types could with this command we can now run T as C.
This is a command which is now a way lable thanks to the globally installed types with compiler app
dot t s and what this command does is it takes as apt ot t s file and converts it into a javascript
file converting any typescript specific code into javascript code and of course running all that type
of logic checking for all these types and so on and right now please note that in here we have absolutely
no typescript specific logic.
This is all regular javascript code but as I mentioned we can write does in typing files and therefore
this will also compile.
So if I hit enter here you'll see this completes and now we get this app genius file and if we have
a look at this file we see it's generally the same content whitespace was removed and you also see that
concept was translated to var because and I did mention this.
Types could also converts code to code that runs in older browsers as well.
This is an extra benefit we get.
So this is actually javascript code which also runs in older browsers.
Later I will show you how you can tweak the configuration to make sure that it works according to your
plans and you for example keep cons here if you want to but for the moment is is fine as long as I have
this file open I also get some errors here in Apt yes because my I.T. thinks that all these functions
and constants are now declared twice to get rid of this.
We simply close aptly s and the errors are gone.
These are not real errors so we get the app fault.
Now let's simply open index HDL and for that we can simply open it up in the MAC finder or Windows Explorer
and click twice on it.
If you do that a new tab should open up in your browser and this will be an empty page of course because
we have no content on our page no content in the dorm.
But if we open up the developer tools we should see some output here and we should see in my case here
50 free.
Now that's of course not the result of five plus free.
But please note that I passed in two strings and therefore if you add two strings javascript concatenate
stem it does not add the mathematically it concatenate stem and that's the bog I mentioned on the slide.
Now how can times go to help us with that.
Well in typescript so it need t s file we shouldn't work into J as file because does this generated
automatically when we compile so in the T S file we can now add some types of features.
The reason why we use typescript we can add a type assignment here for example on the parameters we
can make it clear to the types of compiler that a should be a number and B should be a number.
We do that by adding a colon after the parameter where we want to assign a type.
Then we write to type name and death for example number is one of the types type supports.
We do this after both a and b.
So now what we're telling to TypeScript and to the types of compiler is that both a and b should be
of type No.
And you see my I.D. I now automatically get an error here because visual studio code the idea I'm using
here is actually an I.T. with built in type support and therefore it automatically parses my code and
detects that I'm violating my type rules here.
So it gives me an error here.
Now even if you're not getting this in the idea you you'll see we now get an error.
If I tried to compile this file again by again running TSC apt T S you see now down there we actually
get an error that the argument of type 5 which is wrapped in quotes so which is of type String is not
a sizable to a parameter of type number.
And it also shows us which line violates our rule.
This is typescript in action.
This is one of the main reasons why we use typescript now I am very specific about the types of data
I want to work with here and I am wide.
Mistakes like this one here where I pass the wrong type of data into this function.
Now of course since we call the function here on our own it might be unlikely that we pass and string
data like this but imagine we're actually gathering input from a user input field into Dom values we
get from there would always be a string by default and we might have forgotten to convert them.
In that case types who can help us tremendously because it shows us such an error before we even run
our code and we have to find the bug there.
Now we get an error during compilation.
Now it still compiles to code it still generates the capture his file but it warns us here it gives
us this error and now we can go ahead and fix this error by passing in values of the correct type.
And now I've tried to compilers again it compiles without errors and in the running application if we
reload we got rid of this bug.
So this is how times God can help us write cleaner code and a white unnecessary mistakes simply by adding
some types here.
No that's not all you can do in typescript and not the only way of working with pipes.
But it is an important start.
Now let's see how else we can work with types in typescript.